## Barley Lake Hiatus Estimation

**Abstract:** Of key importance when it comes to re-constructing past climate is the ability to collect data, harvest that data into information, and finally to compile that information into a coherent narrative. Key to developing this narrative is the quantity and quality of age control data. Lake sediment paleoclimatic narratives use age models to infer an age-depth relationship. Often, these lacustrine sediment age models rely on radiocarbon dates used to generate a probabilistic representation of age versus depth (age depth model references). Often the dates of important paleoclimatic events such as droughts, floods, fires, and pluvials are represented as a probability density function via age depth modeling. However, most lacustrine sediment-based age depth models rely on radiocarbon dating, and there are potential age modelling errors associated with stratigraphic inversions, hiatuses, too few age data, and carbon contamination (carbon contamination references). In fact, cores from neighboring lakes or even separate cores within the same lake can result in contradictory narratives with regards to the dates of important paleoclimatic events. It becomes imperative for the science to be able to efficiently combine probability density functions resulting from several different sediment cores to produce a single narrative on the distribution of these important events; preferably, a narrative that minimizes the representation of biased samples and accentuates the representation of unbiased ones. This paper develops a method for estimating the probability density function for the duration of a purported sediment hiatus (i.e., severe drought) during the late Holocene in central California. New statistical methodology for combining probability functions into a single probabilistic representation is introduced. The new methodology is vetted with synthetic data in which various levels of bias are introduced. Finally, the utility of the new methodology is displayed via four lacustrine sediment cores from Barley lake, CA. Preliminary results indicate with a large number of dated sediment cores from the same site, biased samples play a minimal role in a collective narrative. However, with a smaller number of a samples, one or two moderately biased samples can significantly impact the joint narrative.

### Paper
[Multiple Site Age-Depth Distribution Estimation ising Paleoperspectives from Barley Lake, CA](/pdf/Barley_Lake_Statistics_Paper.pdf)
- Preprint submitted to the Journal of Enviormental Statistics

